# :page_facing_up: Diabetes Diagnostic System in Prolog

**Programmers:** Iago Roberto, Francinaldo Barbosa e Cristina de Moura

## :link: Project description

**Teacher evaluation:** 9.8/10

Diabetes diagnostic systems proposed for the completion of the Logic Programming discipline in the Bachelor's degree in Information Systems at the Federal University of Piauí - CSHNB in ​​Picos,
taught by professor Alan Rafael. The diagnosis is conditioned by parameters extracted from the database provided, taking into account: gender, age, hypertension, heart problems, smoker, BMI, hemoglobin
and blood glucose (glucose) to make the diagnosis. Both parameters and new patients are dynamic and change their values ​​with each execution.

## :link: Settings and execution
1. Make sure you have the most up-to-date version of SWI-Prolog
```
SWI-Prolog version 9.0.4 for x64-win64
```
2. Visual Studio Code, during the development of this system, is in the version:
```
1.86.1
```
3. If your SWI-Prolog is not linked to Visual Studio Code, you can link it within native Prolog. In both cases, execute the query:
```
?- main.
```

## :link: Functionalities
### :wrench: Option 1 - Add and diagnose

In this function, patient data is collected and used to automatically diagnose the disease. If one of the requested features is not known, Prolog returns extra questions that can be easily answered.
In case of omission of hemoglobin or glucose, the diagnosis returns inconclusive.

There is also the presence of shields, such as the impossibility of patients with the same names (requesting surname and, if necessary, even CPF).

### :wrench: Option 2 - List patients

Lists all patients in the database and new patients, including their characteristics and diagnosis

### :wrench: Option 3 - Calculate BMI

Requests weight and height to calculate BMI, this function is also included in the add and edit functionalities

### :wrench: Option 4 - Edit patient

Based on the patient's name and the characteristic you want to modify, the information is edited and, if necessary, a new diagnosis is made automatically

### :wrench: Option 5 - Remove patient

Removes the patient from the dynamic database during that execution.

### :wrench: Option 6 - Exit

Close the application

It is important to highlight that the diagnoses generated by the system may not fully reflect the current reality due to the characteristics of the patients and the diagnoses available in the database, which may be limited or present inaccuracies. In this context, Prolog performs diagnoses based on the information provided, following established rules and standards, but it is essential to be aware of the possible limitations and nuances inherent to the automated diagnostic process.
